Tonsillitis is a common childhood ailment.
It refers to inflammation of two clumps of
tissue in side walls at the back of the throat.
The tonsils are made up of spongy
tissue containing white blood cells,
which defend the body against disease.
Some experts think the tonsils
filter bacteria and viruses
entering through the nose or mouth.
If the tonsils become infected,
they can become swollen and painful.
In severe cases, swollen tonsils
project into the throat
and can prevent swallowing or passage of air.
When tonsils become inflamed too often,
some experts recommend their removal,
in a procedure called a tonsillectomy.